Episode 17, George.
I met Miki separately from Elizabeth.
We wanted to get business out of the way before relaxing and catching up with each other.
But first, I wanted to let Miki know that I wasn’t happy with his two “friends”.
“You sent goons to pick us up from the airport!” I protested.
“Come now, George,” Miki replied with his usual charm.
“Okay, they’re a bit rough, those two, but they’re not goons.”
“If they’re not goons, why is everyone so scared of them?” I asked.
“Andrev was in prison for eighteen years for murder,” Miki
explained, “but he found religion in prison and now he’s a good man.
If people gave him a chance, they’d see him differently.”
It seemed more like they were afraid of his uniform than of
him, I thought to myself, but I accepted Miki’s explanation.
“Let’s talk business,” I said.
“You mentioned three projects – a new airport, a dam and a resort… and also the oil fields.”
Miki replied, “There’s a small problem with the oil fields at the
moment, but, yes, as you’ve seen, we desperately need a new airport.
My feeling is that if we have a modern airport, more people will want to do business here.”
“Well…” I said, “Yes, it would help, but you need more than a new airport to attract business.
Can I see your projections?”
“ Projections?” Miki asked.
“You know, your financial projections for how the new airport will impact the economy,” I prompted.
Miki just stared at me.
“You have some documents to show me for these projects, Miki, right?” I asked.
For a few brief seconds, all of Miki’s charm and confidence left him, and he stared
at me like a little lost schoolboy who couldn’t answer the teacher’s question.
And I remembered how he had never been to university or been educated beyond high school level.
He didn’t know the first thing about investments or large-scale
infrastructure projects,   like building an airport.
And I guessed there was nobody in Ankhazastan who had the foggiest idea either.
For those few seconds, I saw into Miki’s soul.
The charm and confidence were all a bluff, to hide the fact
that he was a little boy lost in a world he didn’t understand.
It felt good that I was the more assured one.
“Miki, I will help you.” I promised, “I’ll send a team of my best people here for
a month and they will sort out everything we need to get these projects started.”
The confidence flowed back into Miki’s face and he was his old self again.
“George,” he said, reaching for a bottle of wine on his desk, “You
understand that business works differently in a country like Ankhazastan.
Some payments will have to be off the books if you know what I mean.”
Bribes, I thought.
My father had always avoided anything illegal… even if it meant lost business.
But I wasn’t my father and I wasn’t going to lose an opportunity like this.
“I understand,” I said, as Miki poured out the wine, assuring me that everything would be fine.